Put the PerformanceNavigationTimings
in the right order.
So we have loadEventStart, domComplete,
domContentLoadedEventStart,
[LAUGH] fetchStart, connectEnd,
and domInteractive.
All right, let's see the answers.
So first, we have fetchStart,
then connectEnd, domInteractive,
domContentLoadedEventStart, domComplete,
and at the very end,
we have loadEventStart.
So, we can use
the PerformanceNavigationTiming API to get
detailed timing information about
various phases of the page navigation.
For example, first,
we have the entire DNS lookup again.
We can use a domain lookup start to get
the timing right before it starts a DNS
lookup, and then domain lookup end to
get the timing right after it finished.
So this we can check,
all right, is our DNS right?
Do I maybe have to change
something in my DNS servers?
Is that all good?
Next, we have TCP, right,
establishing that connection to
which we have the connectStart.
And if it uses HTTPS, you can also
get the secure connectionStart to get
that TLS connectionStart.
And of course, the connectEnd,
when that's all ready.
It's all connected to your server.
Next, we actually have the HTTP request.
So requestStart is when it
sends a request to the server.
And at the very end,
we have the responseStart.
So when the very first byte of
the response comes, and then responseEnd.
So comparing responseStart and
responseEnd can kinda say, all right,
is our response coming through, right?
Do we need to optimize anything there?
So next, we have domLoading,
which is the time at which the browser
starts to actually process the the HTML.
So it kind of returns to time when
the browser sets the document
ready state to loading.
Also, just FYI,
domLoading can happen before responseEnd,
because browsers are able to kind of
parse the response stream as it gets in.
So it's not entirely fair to kinda put it
in a timeline like this happens first,
this happens after.
In many cases, the domLoading
can happen before responseEnd,
because it can kind of start
processing the stream as it gets in.
But next, we have domInteractive,
which represents a time at which
the DOM structure is complete and
the HTML documents has been parsed, but
there might still be some resources
that haven't been loaded yet.
This is just the time that it took to
construct the DOM between domLoading and
domInteractive.
So then we have
the domContentLoadedEventStart,
which is the time right before the browser
fires the domContentLoadedEvent.
And in many cases, you may have some
event listeners listening to that, and
this is also when, for example,
the different scripts and
everything load async scripts,
all that stuff.
And then we, of course,
at domContentLoadedEventEnd.
So comparing domContentLoadedEventStart,
it's such a long word, with the End,
you can kind of see how long
it takes to process and
execute all the event handlers
listening to that event.
And then finally, we have the domComplete,
which returns a time right after
the browser sets the ready state to ready.
So in this case,
the DOM is completely loaded.
The resources are now also fully loaded,
all the deferred scripts,
all of that is ready, any images,
nothing is still loading.
And then finally,
we have the loadEventStart.
I can't really visualize that, but
that is like event listeners
listening to the load events.
And then, we have the loadEventEnd,
which specifies the time when all these
listeners have finished executing.
Sometimes, some, I don't know, if you've
worked with frameworks or any other tool,
you may have seen like the at
event listener load ,then do this.
Just to make sure that if we wanna do
something, the entire DOM is constructed,
all the resources are already there,
people can see stuff on the screen,
and so on.
So this is the PerformanceNavigationTiming
API, and this is provided by you.
You can use it if you just wanna kind
of see how well your website is doing.
Yeah, you can see all those timings.
There's a new one now, there's V2.
For a long time, they used V1, so
just make sure that you're not using
an outdated one,
cuz they have slightly different values.
I also kinda skipped the entire
caching here, cuz of course,
every source is cached.
It doesn't have to have the entire
HTTP request, all that stuff,
but this is kind of the most basic
timeline of that timing event.